Problem Statement: 

Electronic voting technology aims to speed up ballot counting, reduce the cost of paying staff to count votes manually and provide disabled voters with greater accessibility. Results can be reported and publicised more quickly. Voters save time and money by being able to vote regardless of where they are. That can increase the overall turnout of voters. The citizens groups that most benefit from electronic elections are those living abroad, citizens living in rural areas far from polling stations and people with disabilities with mobility impairments. 

 

Purpose of this software: 

To provide the voters with flexible or create convenient voting method from anywhere in the world in a user-friendly format. 

To give additional functionalities to the voters to authenticate into the system using their government issued user ID. 

To provide safe and secured polling process. 

To prevent proxy voting.  

 

Project Description: 

The requirement here is to develop an e-polling machine with an efficient algorithm. 

Voter should be able to login into the system using their government issued SIN number. 

Once successfully logged into the system the user can see the list of government issued ID proofs, the user can proceed to vote by entering the number in his desired ID proof.   

Based on the users’ ID proof, the system will direct him to his constitution and show the list of candidates along with the parties nominated for the constituency. 

Voter can cast the vote to the desired candidate. On successful voting a confirmation is shown to the user. 

Voter can cast only one vote. The session will terminate immediately after the first vote. 

Finally, the total number of votes is displayed.  

Assumptions: 

It is assumed that functionality to add, update and delete the voter  and candidate records are provided by an existing system and is not part of this problem. 

All the list of voters as well as the candidates of the constitution are maintained at the server. 

Releases: 

The Project will have two releases. In both, the input is expected from the user before being prompted for access to various features. The features of the system are prioritized and are deployed in two releases. 

Release 1: 

To read the SIN from the user to authenticate into the system. 

The system will check the users SIN and redirects to the user’s constituency. 

The system will display all the parties and its candidates for that constituency. 

Now the user can cast his vote to his desired candidate. 

On successful voting, a confirmation is received. 

Finally, the total number of votes will be displayed.  

Release 2: 

To create a two-step authentication system which involves creating a database for the users (with name and government issued ID proofs). 

The system will display the name along with the list of ID proofs on successful login. 

The user can select any one of his desired ID and enter its value to enter the system. Then follows the step 2 to 6. 
